---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Notes
categories: [markdown]
title: 5.3 and 5.4 blog
---

# 5.3: Computing Bias

Facebook: 25-34 aged
TikTok: 10-19 aged
In my opinion, I think that there is no purposeful exclusion but they do target a specific demographic. 
Yes, I think that it could be harmful because we have a large group of young people all being influenced by one app.
Yes, I think that it should be corrected.
Yes, I think that it’s good business because they are successful and make a lot of revenue off of people's time.

I think that virtual assistants have female voices because society has this idea that men are superior to women, and that women belong as assistants. I think that it is purposeful because of societal norms. I think that it could be harmful because young people can be influenced by the idea and associate women with being assistants. I think that it should be corrected by requesting a female or male voice instead of setting a default. I think that it is good business because they are appealing to society.

Personalized advertisements are an algorithm that influences my decisions since they usually appeal to what I watch/enjoy and encourage me to click/ show interest.

Video:
I do not think that it was intentional because the engineers that were working and testing the camera were probably all white so they didn’t have the correct samples to test different skin tones. I think that it can be harmful to develop technology that can’t operate under all circumstances in which it was meant to because it can unintentionally exclude certain groups from being included. Yes, I think that it should be corrected because a certain group should never be excluded due to something that they can’t control. To produce a better outcome they could retest with different skin tones to generate a more accurate response.

### Summary

TikTok is primarily used by younger generations, such as Generation Z, who enjoy creating and consuming short-form video content. On the other hand, Facebook has a more broad user base that spans multiple generations, including Baby Boomers and Generation X. Facebook offers a wider range of features, including the ability to share text updates, images, and longer-form videos, as well as connect with friends and family. Thus, TikTok and Facebook cater to different age groups based on their preferences and use cases, with TikTok being more popular among younger users and Facebook being more appealing to a wider audience.

# 5.4: Crowdsourcing

We have used many API’s such as a COVID API, Motivational Quote API, Chess API.
The biggest discovery that I have found on Github would be how github is so open source. We can find pretty much any public code since many coders use github. For example many of us have used the open source themes that github has to offer. I have also looked at other code to help influence my code. For example, when I’m working on frontend for a project sometimes I would look into some code to see how they made certain things and aspect look how they look.

### Hacks

1. CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?

2. What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?

3. What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.